Envoy L7 config docs (#5809)
hashicorp/consul: website/source/docs/connect/proxies/envoy.md

configuration
API](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api/blob/master/XDS_PROTOCOL.md).

Consul can configure Envoy sidecars to proxy http/1.1, http2 or gRPC traffic at
L7 or any other tcp-based protocol at L4. Prior to Consul 1.5.0 Envoy proxies
could only proxy tcp at L4.

Currently configuration of additional L7 features is limited, however we have

> plans to support a wide range of further features in the next major release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
plans to support a wide range of features in the next major release
```

cycle.

> As an interim solution, [custom Envoy configuration](#custom-configuration) can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an interim solution, you can add [custom Envoy configuration](#custom-configuration)
```

> be specified in [proxy service definition](/docs/connect/proxies.html) allowing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the [proxy service definition](/docs/connect/proxies.html) allowing
```

> more powerful features of Envoy to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you to use the more powerful features of Envoy.
```

## Supported Versions

Consul's Envoy support was added in version 1.3.0. The following table shows
compatible Envoy versions.

| Consul Version | Compatible Envoy Versions |
|---|---|
| 1.5.x and higher | 1.9.1, 1.8.0† |
| 1.3.x, 1.4.x | 1.9.1, 1.8.0†, 1.7.0† |

>  ~> **† Security Note:** Envoy versions lower than 1.9.1 are vulnerable to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!> **Security Note:** Envoy versions lower than 1.9.1 are vulnerable to
```

Reviewer: I think this should render to a red security box.

 [CVE-2019-9900](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/6434) and
 [CVE-2019-9901](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/6435). Both are
 related to HTTP request parsing and so only affect Consul Connect users if they
 have configured HTTP routing rules via the ["escape

>  hatch"](#custom-configuration). Still, we recommend Envoy 1.9.1 be used where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 hatch"](#custom-configuration). Still, we recommend that you use Envoy 1.9.1 where
```

 possible.

## Getting Started

To get started with Envoy and see a working example you can follow the [Using
Envoy with Connect](/docs/guides/connect-envoy.html) guide.

## Configuration

Envoy proxies require two types of configuration: an initial _bootstrap
configuration_ and dynamic configuration that is discovered from a "management
server", in this case Consul.

The bootstrap configuration at a minimum needs to configure the proxy with an
identity (node id) and the location of it's local Consul agent from which it
discovers all of it's dynamic configuration. See [Bootstrap
Configuration](#bootstrap-configuration) for more details.

> The dynamic configuration Consul Connect provides to each Envoy includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dynamic configuration Consul Connect provides to each Envoy instance includes:
```

>  - TLS certificates and keys to enable mutual auth and keep certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - TLS certificates and keys to enable mutual authentication and keep certificates
```

   rotating.

>  - Service discovery results for upstreams to enable the sidecar to load-balance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Service discovery results for upstreams to enable the proxy to load-balance
```

Reviewer: I don't think we've introduced the concept of a sidecar yet

   outgoing connections.

>  - L7 configuration including timeouts and protocol specific options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - L7 configuration including timeouts and protocol-specific options.
```

> For more information on the parts of the runtime configuration of Envoy proxies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on the parts of the Envoy proxy runtime configuration
```

that are currently controllable via Consul Connect see [Dynamic
Configuration](#dynamic-configuration).

> We plan to continue to enable more and more of Envoy's features through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We plan to enable more and more of Envoy's features through
```

Connect's first-class configuration over time, however some advanced users will

> need more control to configure Envoy in specific ways. To enable this, we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need additional control to configure Envoy in specific ways. To enable this, we
```

provide several ["escape hatch"](#advanced-configuration) options that allow

> low-level raw Envoy config syntax to be provided for some sub-components in each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users to provide low-level raw Envoy config syntax for some sub-components in each
```

> Envoy instance which allows full control although with operator taking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envoy instance. This allows operators to have full control over, and
```

> responsibility for correct configuration and Envoy version support etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
responsibility for correctly configuring Envoy and ensuring version support etc.
```

## Bootstrap Configuration

Envoy requires an initial bootstrap configuration file. The easiest way to

> create this is the [`consul connect envoy`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create this is using the [`consul connect envoy`
```

command](/docs/commands/connect/envoy.html). The command can either output the
bootstrap configuration directly to stdout or can generate it and then `exec`
the Envoy binary as a convenience wrapper.

> Some Envoy configuration options like metrics and tracing sinks can only be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because some Envoy configuration options like metrics and tracing sinks can only be
```

> specified via the bootstrap configuration and so Connect as of Consul 1.5.0 adds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specified via the bootstrap configuration, Connect as of Consul 1.5.0 adds
```

the ability to control some parts of the bootstrap config via proxy
configuration options.

> The following configuration items may be added to the [global `proxy-defaults`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can add the following configuration items to the [global `proxy-defaults`
```

> configuration entry](#TODO) or overridden directly in the `proxy.config` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration entry](#TODO) or override them directly in the `proxy.config` field
```

of a [proxy service
definition](/docs/connect/proxies.html#proxy-service-definitions) or
[`sidecar_service`](/docs/connect/proxies/sidecar-service.html) block.

- `envoy_statsd_url` - A URL in the form `udp://ip:port` identifying a UDP

>   statsd listener that metrics should be delivered to. For example this may be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  StatsD listener that Envoy should deliver metrics to. For example, this may be
```

>   `udp://127.0.0.1:8125` if every host has a local statsd listener. In this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `udp://127.0.0.1:8125` if every host has a local StatsD listener. In this
```

>   case it is convenient to configure this property once in the [global proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  case users can configure this property once in the [global proxy
```

>   defaults](#TODO) config entry. Currently, TCP is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  defaults](#TODO) config entry for convenience. Currently, TCP is not supported.
```

>     -> **Note:** currently the url **must use an ip address** not a dns name due

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ~> **Note:** currently the url **must use an ip address** not a dns name due
```

Reviewer: I think this should render as a yellow box since users might shoot themselves in the foot but it isn't a security risk?

Author: I Always forget out syntax and colour coding for there but yes a warning note makes sense.

>     to the way Envoy is setup for statsd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    to the way Envoy is setup for StatsD.
```

>     The whole parameter may also be specified in the form `$ENV_VAR_NAME` which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Users can also specify the whole parameter in the form `$ENV_VAR_NAME`, which
```

    will cause the `consul connect envoy` command to resolve the actual URL from

>     the named environment variable when it runs. This for example allows each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the named environment variable when it runs. This, for example, allows each
```

>     pod in a Kubernetes cluster to learn of a pod-specific IP address for statsd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pod in a Kubernetes cluster to learn of a pod-specific IP address for StatsD
```

>     when the envoy instance is bootstrapped while still allowing global

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    when the Envoy instance is bootstrapped while still allowing global
```

>     configuration of all proxies to use statsd in the [global `proxy-defaults`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    configuration of all proxies to use StatsD in the [global `proxy-defaults`
```

Reviewer: We should probably just to a find-and-replace for all of these statsd -> StatsD

    configuration entry](#TODO). The env variable must contain a full valid URL

>     value as specified above and nothing else. It is not possible to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    value as specified above and nothing else. It is not currently possible to use
```

>     environment variables as only part of the URL currently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    environment variables as only part of the URL.
```

- `envoy_dogstatsd_url` - The same as `envoy_statsd_url` with the following
  differences in behavior:

>     - Envoy will use dogstatsd tags instead of statsd dot-separated metric names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Envoy will use dogstatsd tags instead of statsd dot-separated metric names.
```

    - As well as `udp://`, a `unix://` URL may be specified if your agent can
      listen on a unix socket (e.g. the dogstatsd agent).

- `envoy_prometheus_bind_addr` - Specifies that the proxy should expose a Prometheus
  metrics endpoint to the _public_ network. It must be supplied in the form
  `ip:port` and port and the ip/port combination must be free within the network
  namespace the proxy runs. Typically the IP would be `0.0.0.0` to bind to all
  available interfaces or a pod IP address.

    -> **Note:** Envoy versions prior to 1.10 do not export timing histograms

>     using the internal prometheus endpoint. Consul 1.5.0 [doesn't yet support

Author: ```suggestion
    using the internal Prometheus endpoint. Consul 1.5.0 [doesn't yet support
```

    Envoy 1.10](#supported-versions) although support will soon be added.

- `envoy_stats_tags` - Specifies one or more static tags that will be added to
  all metrics produced by the proxy.

- `envoy_stats_flush_interval` - Configures Envoy's
  [`stats_flush_interval`](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.9.1/api-v2/config/bootstrap/v2/bootstrap.proto#envoy-api-field-config-bootstrap-v2-bootstrap-stats-flush-interval).

There are more possibilities available in the [Advanced
Configuration](#advanced-configuration) section that allow incremental or
complete control over the bootstrap configuration generated.

## Dynamic Configuration

> Envoy's dynamic configuration is generated by Consul and is automatic. For Envoy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consul automatically generates Envoy's dynamic configuration. For Envoy
```

Reviewer: I'm not exactly sure what is happening here, and in the next paragraph.
- Are we saying that though the config generation is automatic it's influenced by the service defaults?
- How is this connected to the proxy defaults mentioned in the next paragraph?

Author: Good questions. The answer is that we really want to push people towards specifying things like `protocol` for services centrally via `service-defaults` but in practice all that does is automatically add the config into the proxy config or upstream config.

The challenge here is documenting the config keys available in a proxy service's `Proxy.Config` and `Proxy.Upstreams[*].Config` while trying to encourage the use of centralised config to manage them rather than hard-coding these into registrations.

> Are we saying that though the config generation is automatic it's influenced by the service defaults?

Yes. The automatic part might be unnecessary but was trying to set the tone for why there are relatively few knobs here - we provided an opinionated config based on protocol. Later there will be more possible here but based on higher-level things like routing config rather than specific knobs for Envoy etc.

> How is this connected to the proxy defaults mentioned in the next paragraph?
The `protocol` is actually passed to the Envoy in the `Proxy.Config` which is why that needs to be documented.  We want to encourage users not to hard-code that in their own registrations though (because then it doesn't get automatically discovered by other services using their service as an upstream) and use `service-defaults` instead. When `service-defaults` is used, we still actually pass the config to Envoy via the `Proxy.Config` map in the same way as if user set them manually, we just automatically add those and keep them in sync for all service instances etc.

If you can think of a clearer way to explain this somewhere in this document or elsewhere I'm all ears. I'm not really happy with how it ended up but just wanted something reasonably complete to get feedback on.

we generate different listener configurations depending on the service's

> protocol which is defined using [`service-defaults` configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
protocol which is defined using the [`service-defaults` configuration
```

entries](#TODO).

> The following configuration items may be added to the [global `proxy-defaults`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users may add the following configuration items to the [global `proxy-defaults`
```

> configuration entry](#TODO) or overridden directly in the `proxy.config` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration entry](#TODO) or override them directly in the `proxy.config` field
```

of a [proxy service
definition](/docs/connect/proxies.html#proxy-service-definitions) or
[`sidecar_service`](/docs/connect/proxies/sidecar-service.html) block.

> - `protocol` - The protocol the service speaks. The following `protocol` values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `protocol` - The protocol the service speaks. Connect's Envoy integration currently supports the following `protocol` values:
```

>   are supported by Connect's Envoy integration currently:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   - `tcp` - The default is plain TCP and will proxy at L4. This gets all the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `tcp` - Unless otherwise specified, this is the default, which causes Envoy to proxy at layer 4. This provides all the
```

    security benefits of Connect's mTLS and works for any TCP-based protocol.
    Load-balancing and metrics are available at the connection level.

>   - `http` - This specified the service speaks HTTP/1.x. Envoy will setup an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `http` - This specifies that the service speaks HTTP/1.x. Envoy will setup an
```

    `http_connection_manager` and will be able to load-balance requests
    individually to available upstream services. Envoy will also emit L7 metrics
    such as request rates broken down by HTTP response code family (2xx, 4xx, 5xx,
    etc).

>   - `http2` - This specifies that the service speaks http2. Specifically h2c since

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `http2` - This specifies that the service speaks http2 (specifically h2c since
```

    Envoy will still only connect to the local service instance via plain TCP not

>     TLS. This behaves much like `http` with L7 load-balancing and metrics but has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    TLS). This behaves much like `http` with L7 load-balancing and metrics but has
```

>     additional settings that correctly enable end-to-end http2. Envoy in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    additional settings that correctly enable end-to-end http2. Envoy may support
```

Reviewer: I think we're trying to avoid making forward facing statements in the docs unless there's a strong reason

Author: That's fair. I was trying to hint at why we need http and http2 to be explicit when they are supposed to be compatible/negotiatable which is a current limitation of Envoy but I guess that doesn't need to be said here.

>     future may support automatic upgrades between HTTP/1.x and http2 and not need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     explicit configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  - `grpc` - gRPC is a common RPC protocol based on http2. In addition to the

>     http2 support above, a service with `grpc` protocol will be configured with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    http2 support above, Envoy will configure `grpc` protocol services with a
```

Reviewer: Give this a good technical check, I may not have captured the meaning when changing it from passive voice

Author: ```suggestion
    http2 support above, Envoy listeners will be configured with a
```

    [gRPC bridge
    filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.9.1/configuration/http_filters/grpc_http1_bridge_filter#config-http-filters-grpc-bridge)

>     that allows HTTP/1.1 calls to be translated into gRPC as well as instrumenting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    that translates HTTP/1.1 calls into gRPC, and instruments
```

    metrics with `gRPC-status` trailer codes.

> - `local_connect_timeout_ms` - The number of milliseconds to allow when making

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `local_connect_timeout_ms` - The number of milliseconds allowed to make
```

>   connections the local application instance before timing out. Defaults to 5000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  connections to the local application instance before timing out. Defaults to 5000
```

  (5 seconds).

The following configuration items may be overridden directly in the
`proxy.upstreams[].config` field of a [proxy service
definition](/docs/connect/proxies.html#proxy-service-definitions) or
[`sidecar_service`](/docs/connect/proxies/sidecar-service.html) block.

- `protocol` - Same as above in main config but affects the listener setup for
  the upstream.
- `connect_timeout_ms` - The number of milliseconds to allow when making upstream
  connections before timing out. Defaults to 5000
  (5 seconds).

## Advanced Configuration

> To support more flexibility when configuring Envoy, several options exist that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support more flexibility when configuring Envoy, several "lower-level" options exist that
```

> are "lower level" and require a good knowledge of Envoy's configuration format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exist that require a good knowledge of Envoy's configuration format
```

Author: ```suggestion
exist that require knowledge of Envoy's configuration format.
```

> and options. Many require configuring a subsection of either the bootstrap or

Author: ```suggestion
Many require configuring a subsection of either the bootstrap or
```

dynamic configuration using your own custom protobuf config.

We separate these into two sets, [Advanced Bootstrap
Options](#advanced-bootstrap-options) and [Escape Hatch
Overrides](#escape-hatch-overrides). Both require writing Envoy config in it's

> protobuf JSON encoding, however advanced options are smaller chunks that might

Reviewer: ```suggestion
protobuf JSON encoding. Advanced options are smaller chunks that might
```

> commonly need to be set for tasks like configuring tracing, while escape hatches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commonly need to be set for tasks like configuring tracing. In contrast, escape hatches
```

> give almost complete control over the proxy setup at the expense of needing to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
give almost complete control over the proxy setup, but require operators to
```

manually code the entire configuration in protobuf JSON.

> -> **Advanced Topic!** This section covers optional ways of taking almost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **Advanced Topic!** This section covers options that allow users to take almost
```

Reviewer: Make yellow or red

Author: Yellow is the precedent set by https://www.consul.io/docs/internals/gossip.html I misremembered that being blue.

Author: ```suggestion
~> **Advanced Topic!** This section covers options that allow users to take almost
```

> complete control of Envoy's configuration which is provided as a way to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
complete control of Envoy's configuration. We provide these options so users can
```

> experiment or take advantage of features not yet fully supported. While we don't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
experiment or take advantage of features not yet fully supported in Consul Connect. We
```

> plan to remove the ability to do this in the future, it should be considered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
plan to retain this ability in the future, but it should be considered
```

> experimental and requires in-depth knowledge of Envoy's configuration format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
experimental because it requires in-depth knowledge of Envoy's configuration format.
```

> Envoy version compatibility when using these features should be considered and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users should consider Envoy version compatibility when using these features because they can configure Envoy in ways that
```

> is outside of Consul's control. Incorrect configuration could prevent all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are outside of Consul's control. Incorrect configuration could prevent all
```

> proxies in your mesh from functioning correctly or bypass the security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proxies in your mesh from functioning correctly, or bypass the security
```

guarantees Connect is designed to enforce.

### Configuration Formatting

> They are all specified as strings containing the serialized proto3 JSON encoding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All configurations are specified as strings containing the serialized proto3 JSON encoding
```

of the specified Envoy configuration type. They are full JSON types except where
noted.

The JSON supplied may describe a protobuf `types.Any` message with an `@type`
field set to the appropriate type (for example
`type.googleapis.com/envoy.api.v2.Listener`), or it may be the direct encoding
with no `@type` field.

### Advanced Bootstrap Options

> The following configuration items may be added to the [global `proxy-defaults`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users may add the following configuration items to the [global `proxy-defaults`
```

> configuration entry](#TODO) or overridden directly in the `proxy.config` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration entry](#TODO) or override them directly in the `proxy.config` field
```

of a [proxy service
definition](/docs/connect/proxies.html#proxy-service-definitions) or
[`sidecar_service`](/docs/connect/proxies/sidecar-service.html) block.

- `envoy_extra_static_clusters_json` - Specifies one or more [Envoy
  clusters](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.9.1/api-v2/api/v2/cds.proto#cluster)
  that will be appended to the array of [static
  clusters](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.9.1/api-v2/config/bootstrap/v2/bootstrap.proto#envoy-api-field-config-bootstrap-v2-bootstrap-staticresources-clusters)
  in the bootstrap config. This allows adding custom clusters for tracing sinks
  for example. For a single cluster just encode a single object, for multiple,
  they should be comma separated with no trailing comma suitable for
  interpolating directly into a JSON array inside the braces.

> - `envoy_extra_static_listeners_json` - As with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `envoy_extra_static_listeners_json` - Similar to
```

  `envoy_extra_static_clusters_json` but appends [static
  listener](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.9.1/api-v2/config/bootstrap/v2/bootstrap.proto#envoy-api-field-config-bootstrap-v2-bootstrap-staticresources-listeners) definitions.
  Can be used to setup limited access that bypasses Connect mTLS or
  authorization for health checks or metrics.

> - `envoy_extra_stats_sinks_json` - As with `envoy_extra_static_clusters_json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `envoy_extra_stats_sinks_json` - Similar to `envoy_extra_static_clusters_json`
```

  but for [stats sinks](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.9.1/api-v2/config/bootstrap/v2/bootstrap.proto#envoy-api-field-config-bootstrap-v2-bootstrap-stats-sinks). These are appended to any sinks defined by use of the
  higher-level [`envoy_statsd_url`](#envoy_statsd_url) or
  [`envoy_dogstatsd_url`](#envoy_dogstatsd_url) config options.
- `envoy_stats_config_json` - The entire [stats
  config](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.9.1/api-v2/config/bootstrap/v2/bootstrap.proto#envoy-api-field-config-bootstrap-v2-bootstrap-stats-config).
  If provided this will override the higher-level
  [`envoy_stats_tags`](#envoy_stats_tags). It allows full control over dynamic
  tag replacements etc.
- `envoy_tracing_json` - The entire [tracing
  config](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.9.1/api-v2/config/bootstrap/v2/bootstrap.proto#envoy-api-field-config-bootstrap-v2-bootstrap-tracing).
  Most tracing providers will also require adding static clusters to define the
  endpoints to send tracing data to.

### Escape-Hatch Overrides

> The following configuration items may be added to the [global `proxy-defaults`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users may add the following configuration items to the [global `proxy-defaults`
```

> configuration entry](#TODO) or overridden directly in the `proxy.config` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration entry](#TODO) or override them directly in the `proxy.config` field
```
